---
layout: post
title: Code
cover: code.jpg
categories: posts
---

## Introductory Materials

* [Setting up Python for scientific programming](../../../../code/html/t0_setting_up_python.html) \| This brief tutorial contains instructions to get Python and peripherals set up on your computer.

Below are links to some courses you may find useful for learning programming
and data analysis in biology.

* [Introduction to Programming in the Biological Sciences](http://justinbois.github.io/bootcamp/2016/) \| A pboc-style course in which you learn practical programming in one weeks' time.

* [Data Analysis in the Biological Sciences](http://bebi103.caltech.edu/2016/) \| A wonderful course which teaches the theory and practice of Bayesian statistics using biological data. The tutorials are shown in detail in Python.

## Data sets

Please download the following data sets, unzip them, and place them in your `pboc/data` folder.

* [Data Set 1](../../../../code/data/colony_growth.zip) \| A series of Phase contrast images of growing *E. coli* colony.
* [Data Set 2](../../../../code/data/SampleBacterialImages.zip) \| A sample phase contrast and fluorescence image of bacteria.
* [Data Set 3](../../../../code/data/lacI_titration.zip) \| A large image set of *E. coli* strains with varying copy numbers of the lacI repressor molecule.
#* [Data Set 6](../../../../code/data/yeast_smFISH_data.zip) \| mRNA distributions for two genes in yeast measured by single-molecule FISH from [Zenklusen et. al. (2008)](http://www.rpdata.caltech.edu/courses/PBoC_CSHL_2017/zenklusen_etal_yeastFISH.pdf)



## Course Exercises
As we go through the course, the code we write in class will be posted here. When possible, extra tutorials with more detail and explanation will be posted as well.

[comment]:< Exercise 1 \| Measuring the
    growth rate of bacteria. [\[data
    set\]](http://www.rpdata.caltech.edu/courses/course_data/ecoli_growth.zip)[\[in
    class\]](../../../../code/inclass/ecoli_growth_in_class.py)>

#* Exercise 2 \| "Spreading
    the butter:" diffusion by numerically integrating the master equation
    and simulating FRAP. [\[in
    class\]](../../../../code/inclass/master_equation_diffusion.py)

#* [Exercise 3](../../../../code/constitutive_promoter.py) \| Numerically
    integrating the differential equation for mean mRNA production by a constitutive promoter.

#* [Exercise 4](../../../../code/mRNA_spreading_butter.py) \| "Spreading
    the butter:" finding the full probability distribution of mRNA
    produced by a constitutive promoter.


