---
layout: post
title: Readings
cover: readings.jpg
categories: posts
---

## In-Class Readings

Readings mentioned specifically in class will be listed here as the course progresses.

### Sunday, March 12

[Street fighting mathematics](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/street-fighting-mathematics) by Sanjoy Mahajan. This a free textbook on the art of performing back-of-the-envelope calculations. <br />

[The Art of Insight in Science and Engineering: Mastering Complexity](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/art-insight-science-and-engineering) by Sanjoy Mahajan.

### Monday, March 13

[Models in biology: 'accurate descriptions of our pathetic thinking](http://www.rpdata.caltech.edu/courses/PBoC_GIST_2016/BMC_Biol_2014_Gunawardena.pdf) by Jeremy Gunawardena. An excellent discussion on the role of mathematics and theory in biology. <br/>


### Tuesday, March 14

### Wednesday, March 15

### Thursday, March 16

### Friday, March 17

### Saturday, March 18


## Supplementary reading

The papers provided here are meant to provide an entry point
into the literature for going more deeply into various topics
covered in class. These papers have been picked either
because they provide interesting and provocative experimental
measurements of particular biological phenomena or because they
show how to go about constructing theoretical models in the
physical biology spirit described in the course. The papers
that are of most direct relevance to what we will cover in class
are linked on the "Syllabus" part of the website.

### Biology by the numbers


### The physics of genome management


### Regulatory biology


### Pattern formation in biology


### Evolution
